---
title: About
menu: main
---

SourceBots is a not-for-profit organisation aiming to promote Science,
Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) subjects to teenagers. It does
this by hosting robotics challenges which encourage participants to work
together in an environment markedly different to the way they would at school or
college.

In particular, part of SourceBots philosophy is that participants should have to
solve open-ended challenges as well as to manage their time and prioritise their
efforts. This teaches valuable teamwork and time-management skills at a scale
which participants might not otherwise meet until late in their university or
working lives.

SourceBots is based at the [University of Southampton][uos]’s [Department of
Electronics and Computer Science][ecs] and is lead by its students, though is an
independent organisation. It also benefits from contributors outside the
University, including teachers and professional engineers.

## Robotics Summer Schools

Each year, SourceBots works with the Smallpeice Trust to hosted an annual
robotics competition for Year 12 students (age 16–17) at the University of
Southampton.

This partnership allows the SourceBots volunteers to focus on providing the core
event: an exciting week-long team challenge in which the participants design,
build and program an autonomous robot, culminating in an action-packed knockout
competition.

#### Low Barrier to Entry

One of the core aims of the project is to keep the barrier to entry as low as
possible. Many of the competitors have little or no prior experience of
programming or electronics. To cater for this, SourceBots volunteers run a
number of tutorial sessions throughout the week to introduce participants to the
fundamentals. Every team also has a dedicated mentor to help them through some
of the more difficult problems they may encounter.

As the competitors have less than a week to build their robot and prepare for
the competition, SourceBots provides them with all the parts needed to build a
robot, as well as access to the fully equipped electronics, computer
laboratories and workshop facilities at the University’s Department of
Electronics and Computer Science.

## Longer Robotics Competition

In 2018 SourceBots is hosting a much longer version of its successful summer
school competitions in collaboration with schools in the south and south-east of
the UK.

This competition sees teams of sixth-form students facing a similar technical
challenge to that presented in the summer schools, though with the additional
challenge of a four-month build period during which they must manage their own
time and efforts.

While direct mentoring of some of the nearby teams is possible, the distance to
more distant teams mean that other means of support are needed. Therefore, for
this competition SourceBots focus is on remotely supporting teams and running
periodic "Tech Days" which teams are invited to attend to get direct support.

## Get Involved

If you would like to contribute to SourceBots, volunteers in the Southampton
area are always welcome to assist in mentorship and setting up the arena. There
are also many ways in which you can contribute online, such as writing software
or preparing tutorial sessions; email us at <hello@sourcebots.co.uk> if you’d
like to get involved.

[uos]: https://www.southampton.ac.uk
[ecs]: https://www.ecs.soton.ac.uk
